Experiment Report: Bank Deposit and Withdraw UI

In this experiment, I designed a basic user interface (UI) for a bank deposit and withdrawal system using HTML and CSS.

HTML Overview

To build the structure of the UI, I used common HTML tags like <div> and <button>. To style different sections individually, I assigned class attributes to the <div> elements.

Basic Structure (Experiment 2):

- An outer_div that contains the entire content of the page.
- Inside it, an inner_div that holds the deposit and withdraw buttons, along with the input for the withdrawal amount.

This forms the HTML skeleton, which is then styled using CSS.

CSS Overview

CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is used to enhance the appearance of HTML elements with design and layout.

Types of CSS:

1. Inline CSS – CSS written directly inside an HTML tag.
2. Internal CSS – CSS placed inside a <style> tag within the HTML file.
3. External CSS – CSS written in a separate file and linked to the HTML using the <link> tag.

Basic CSS Syntax:

selector {
    property: value;
}

/* Example: */
body {
    background-color: yellow;
}

CSS Concepts Applied

Box Model:
This fundamental concept in CSS helps define how elements are spaced and sized. It includes:

- Content – The actual text or element.
- Padding – The space between the content and the border.
- Border – The outline around the element.
- Margin – The space between elements or containers.

Flexbox Layout:
Flexbox is a layout model that helps arrange content in rows or columns.

- If flex-direction: row, elements are aligned horizontally.
- If flex-direction: column, they are aligned vertically.

Responsive Design:
Responsive UI adjusts automatically to different screen sizes and devices. This is achieved using the @media query in CSS, which applies styles based on screen width or other conditions.

CSS Properties Used in This Project:

- background-color – sets the background color.
- color – sets the text color.
- justify-content – aligns content horizontally.
- border – customizes the border of elements.
- border-radius – smooths the corners of elements.
- display – defines the layout type (e.g., flex).

What I Learned

1. How to add and use class attributes in HTML tags.
2. How to use Flexbox to align elements in rows and columns.
3. How to apply CSS styles to elements using class selectors.
4. Understanding the CSS box model for spacing and layout.
5. How to create responsive designs using media queries.